

--- PAGE 1 ---
Instantly share code, notes, and snippets.
0xJCN / Audit.md
Secret
Created 2 months ago
Code
Revisions
1
Audit.md
This audit reviews the changes introduced in the Silo V2 4.0.0 release, with a
particular focus on the newly introduced liquidation by defaulting mechanism, fixes to
liquidation edge cases, backward compatibility updates for gauges, and the removal
of same asset borrowing functionality.
The scope of this engagement is limited to a diff-based review of the contracts
modified as part of this release. As such, this report does not attempt to re-establish
the full correctness of the protocol, but instead evaluates whether the introduced
changes behave as intended, introduce unexpected edge cases, or alter protocol
assumptions in ways that may impact users, integrators, or off-chain infrastructure.
ID
Description
Severity
I-
01
Secondary effects of defaulting liquidations
Informational
I-
02
Defaulting liquidation can implicitly favor DAO/deployer
revenue over lender interest
Informational
I-
03
Sophisticated users can miss out on distributed collateral
from defaulting liquidation
Informational
I-
04
hookReceiverConfig  can return deprecated hook
actions
Informational
Silo V2 4.0.0 Release Audit
Foreword
Findings Summary


--- PAGE 2 ---
Defaulting liquidation introduces a second liquidation path that can become available
before a position is underwater, due to an additional ~2.5% liquidation threshold
margin. As a result, both normal liquidation and defaulting liquidation may be valid at
a given time for the same unhealthy position.
Unlike normal liquidation, where repaid debt remains in the debt silo and continues to
accrue interest, defaulting liquidation writes off debt and compensates lenders via a
distribution of the borrower’s collateral shares from the opposing silo, along with 80%
of the liquidation fee.
Because defaulting liquidation is not strictly limited to situations where bad debt is
created, its use introduces several non-obvious secondary effects.
1. Lender exposure shifts from interest-bearing to non-accruing assets
Defaulting liquidation is only supported in one-way markets, where the collateral Silo
shares do not accrue interest. When defaulting liquidation occurs, lenders lose part of
their interest bearing exposure in the debt silo and gain non interest bearing collateral
shares from the opposing Silo (protected assets are prioritized). Note that lenders will
also receive an immediate kickback via 80% of the liquidation fee, but this is strictly a
short term gain.
To resume earning interest on all of their underlying assets, lenders must claim the
distributed shares via the gauge, withdraw the underlying assets, and redeposit them
into the debt silo. If this process is delayed, lenders will incur a time-dependent
opportunity cost from missed interest accrual.
2. Lower liquidation barrier can change liquidator behavior
Defaulting liquidation significantly lowers participation requirements since no upfront
capital and/or flash loan infrastructure is required. These requirements are especially
relevant to large positions, where highly sophisticated users are the primary
liquidators.
While defaulting liquidators receive only 20% of the liquidation fee, the reduced
barrier to entry may incentivize defaulting liquidation even when normal liquidation is
feasible and would preserve more long-term value for lenders.
3. Immediate share price deflation impacts integrators
[I-01] Secondary effects of defaulting liquidations
Description


--- PAGE 3 ---
Defaulting liquidation writes off assets without reducing share supply, causing an
immediate decrease in the debt silo’s share price. This is expected, but notably this
can occur even when the position is not underwater. Downstream integrations inherit
this effect. For example, Silo vaults aggregate exposure across multiple markets. A
defaulting liquidation in a supported market can immediately reduce vault share price.
As a result, vault depositors may experience losses during otherwise normal market
conditions, due solely to the liquidation path selected.
Consider documenting these secondary effects so lenders, liquidators, and
integrators understand the economic tradeoffs introduced by defaulting liquidation,
particularly in scenarios where both liquidation paths are valid.
During a defaulting liquidation, the collateral in the debt silo is cleared proportionally
to the debt being cleared. If the debt cleared exceeds the total collateral in the silo,
the excess is subtracted from the daoAndDeployerRevenue  state variable. This
ensures that accrued, but unpaid, fees do not remain tracked in the system and
become claimable by the DAO/deployer when future deposits occur.
However, there is a subtle quirk due to how interest accrual works: pending interest is
optimistically split between lenders (tracked in totalAssets[Collateral] ) and the
DAO/deployer (tracked by daoAndDeployerRevenue ). When a portion of this interest
is already paid, the protocol does not distinguish between which portion pertains to
lenders versus fees. During a defaulting liquidation, clearing the entire collateral
means that any paid interest is effectively credited entirely to the DAO/deployer,
implicitly favoring the fee recipients over lenders.
Consider a simplified example below:
Initial state
total_collateral = 100
total_debt = 100
Interest accrues
Recommendation
[I-02] Defaulting liquidation can implicitly favor
DAO/deployer revenue over lender interest
Description


--- PAGE 4 ---
interest_accrued = 10
lender_portion = 5
fee_recipient_portion = 5
total_collateral = 105
total_debt = 110
daoAndDeployerRevenue = 5
Portion of interest is paid
interest_paid = 5
total_collateral = 105
total_debt = 105
daoAndDeployerRevenue = 5
Borrower undergoes defaulting liquidation
interest_paid = 5
total_collateral = 0
total_debt = 0
daoAndDeployerRevenue = 5 # DAO/Deployer can claim all paid interest
This behavior creates an implicit bias in favor of DAO/deployer revenue at the expense
of lender interest, which may not be immediately obvious from the protocol’s
mechanics.
Document this behavior to ensure users and integrators understand that defaulting
liquidation can implicitly prioritize DAO/deployer revenue over lender interest in this
edge case.
When a position undergoes a defaulting liquidation, the borrower's collateral shares
(equivalent to value of debt cleared + 80% of the liquidation fee) will be distributed to
all lenders of that debt_silo  via the collateral share tokens of the borrower's
collateral_silo .
Recommendation
[I-03] Sophisticated users can miss out on distributed
collateral from defaulting liquidation
Description


--- PAGE 5 ---
This distribution is performed via an immediate distribution in the gauge associated
with the collateral share token of the debt_silo . So all current holders of this share
token will be eligible to claim the distribution. However, sophisticated users may opt
to utilize their collateral shares in different protocols, during which they will not own
said shares. It is therefore possible for these users to miss out on these distributed
shares when a defaulting liquidation occurs.
This is not a direct security issue, but rather an edge case of the distribution
mechanism for defaulting liquidations. This edge case becomes more impactful in the
scenario where the collateral controller gauge is otherwise not active (no reward
distributions announced) and therefore lenders may be incentivized to lend/stake
their shares in other protocols. In this case, the reward distribution from a defaulting
liquidation may occur unexpectedly to users, which can negatively affect
sophisticated lenders who are temporarily not holding their shares.
Consider documenting this edge case so users are aware of the opportunity cost of
deploying their collateral shares in other protocols in the event that a defaulting
liquidation occurs.
Functionality related to borrowing the same asset as supplied and switching collateral
between silos has been deprecated at the protocol level. However, hook
configurations can still have the corresponding deprecated hook bits set, and the
hookReceiverConfig  view function may return hook bitmaps that include these
deprecated actions.
While this does not pose a security risk, it may confuse integrators or off-chain
systems that rely on hookReceiverConfig  to infer supported protocol functionality.
Consider explicitly documenting that hookReceiverConfig  may return deprecated
hook actions. A potential code change could be to prevent deprecated action bits
from being configured for hooks. However, since this issue is limited to observability,
such a code change may introduce unnecessary complexity and should be handled
with care if implemented.
Recommendation
[I-04] hookReceiverConfig  can return deprecated
hook actions
Description
Recommendation
